---
title: "Community Gathering, October 25, 2023"
tags: unikraft, community
datetime: 2023-10-25T13:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- community
participants:
- RăzvanV
- RăzvanD
- AlexJ
- Sergiu
- Sahil
- Cezar
- Michalis
- Luca
- Ryia
- Mihnea
- ȘtefanJ
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Past & incoming events
- Timeline review, path to release 1.0
- People and projects mapping
- Ownership of tracks
- Ideas, proposals, feedback
- Others

## Discussions

### Past & Incoming Events

End of GSoC

Hackathons

GSoC Mentor Summit

Zagreb Hackathon - April 2024


FOSDEM'24: https://fosdem.org/2024/


KubeCon NA - November 2023

CloudFest - March 2024

KubeCon EU - March 2024


Open Source Summit NA: Seatlle: April 2024

Open Source Summit EU: Vienna: September 2024


Release 0.15

### Timeline Review, Path to Release 1.0

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ue6qtO_qMXHCtlLSKMjsDujQHYa6JQYNqvi5EVg1qTM/edit#gid=0

AJ: Make sense to have a realease in December (a patch release 0.15.1 is a good idea)

AJ: 0.16 before FOSDEM.
Don't know whether this is 1.0 or not.
To discuss what is 1.0: stability, security: security disclosure process, maybe a CVE reporting system.

"1.0 is stable. Let me try to break it"

MP: SMP is very important.
We should consider the point of view of users.

AJ: Tooling should be the same of the same release.
KraftKit should be aligned with the 1.0 release.

### People and Projects Mapping

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/10DuQCr6c65Lr2Q55LzoKTnadJz8rcs4L2u0CMDR7CvM/edit#gid=0

### Ownership of Tracks

Own items, ask for responsibility

### Ideas, Proposals, Feedback

Idea (from Michalis): Put the review process as part of the regular schedule

Time taken to debug something is inversely proportional to the size of the diff.

Breaking a PR in smaller PRs.

To be improved when people get more experience.

### Others

AJ: Once every two weeks makes sense.

AJ: Office hours

Role of the support forum

## TODOs and Decisions

RD: Create a document with must-haves for 1.0 release.

RD: Fill out the `OSS - Contributors` document.
Ask for feedback / updates from the community.

RD: Resend: https://discord.com/channels/762976922531528725/1115267435755470858

RD: Do reminders on integrate reviews as part of your daily process.

Rename "Support forum" to "Forum".
Add a "Community Updates" category for community updates, meeting summaries, announcements.

RD: Once every two week "Community Updates", the ohter one "Office Hours" - Wednesday, 12pm-1pm CEST.

RD: Schedule other meetings.
