---
title: "Security WG, August 9, 2023"
tags: unikraft, security
datetime: 2023-08-09T16:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- security
participants:
- Michalis
- RÄƒzvanD
- Xinjiagn
---

## :dart: Agenda

- Status update
- Next steps

## :closed_book: Discussions

MP: We cannot access the console before we do this mapping.
The way we are reworking `ukconsole` is to initialize it during boot.

XZ: I need to check if this is in the attribute and then add it to the PTE.

There are multiple cases that define page attributes.

MP: At the platform level we define an abstraction of attributes, given they have to work on multiple architectures.

XZ: In `ukplat_page_set_attr()` there are some attributes that don't work.

MP: This is expected, since some attributes are architecture-specific.

MP: Does the early UART work on Linux?

XZ: I don't know, there are no examples.
In their examples, there are no applications actually using this feature.

MP: We can move drivers from `plat/common/` to `drivers/`.
I opened three more PRs to move PCI and two other drivers on the new skeleton.

XZ: Should the driver update be prioritized over the shared memory thing.

MP: You can have this as your list and then you can decide where to put your focus on.

MP: It would be easier to have the discussion on a draft PR.

XZ: I would like to differentiate between attributes.

MP: The shareability attributes are not related to CCA.

MP: We need to think how to treat architecture-specific attributes.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

XZ: Create a draft PR with the shared memory work.
