---
datetime: 2023-08-16T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
  - gsoc
participants:
  - Michalis
  - Rareș
  - Sergiu
  - RăzvanD
---

### Agenda

Status updates

### Discussions

RM: The proposal for data types is something I checked both for GCC and Clang and it works.

RM: I completed the PR for GIC.

RM: There are some build issues with OFW and virtio.

RM: We're moving RTC to `ukrtc`.

RM: The PL011 driver doesn't compile.

RD/MP: We'll have an internal plat re-arch discussion to agree on future steps.

RD: You be the judge whether PRs should be kept draft or not.
Draft PRs are for when you want to add other items or you want an extensive discussion (i.e. RFC PR - request for comments).
Otherwise, mark them as full PRs.

### TODOs and Decisions

RM: Provide PR with data types, based on builtin compiler support.

RM: OFW and virtio would be finished until Saturday.

RM: Keep an eye out for PR reviews.

RM: Wait for feedback from maintainers, regarding next steps.

MP/RD: Come back with next steps after plat re-arch maintainers meeting.
