---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, July 24, 2023"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2023-07-24T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#monkey-business` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Cezar
- È˜tefanJ
- AlexJ
- Marco
- Simon
- Michalis
- RaduNichita
- SergiuM
---

## :dart: Agenda

Quick walkthrough of the most recent maintainer-related topics:

- Versioning (lead by Alexander Jung), documented here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1A-CAss5RvgYapg3YO8GNCdMki6cgq_7XG5om8nVWWGk/edit?usp=sharing
- Coding conventions, now a PR here (I would like it to be upstream with release 0.14): https://github.com/unikraft/docs/pull/248

Possible agenda items for the future:

- CI/CD system / technology / owners / workflow
- Documentation / Website system / owners / workflow
- Release schedule / process: Is there something we can improve here?
- Mentoring programs (GSoC, LFX, Outreachy): How much can we handle? Project difficulty, participant retention
- VFScore redesign
- KraftKit use for development or mainly for use / deploy?
- App / Library porting process - can it be improved? Can we more easily (and orderly) support new versions?
- Others

## :closed_book: Discussions

### Coding Conventions

RNichita: I would like if all of you could have a look in the PRs: https://github.com/unikraft/docs/pull/248

SK: I'll probably find feedback on the Coding Convention.

### Versioning

SK: We'll integrate the Library.uk files.

AJ: I'll add SPDX.


RD: Will likely happen in the next couple of weeks.

AJ: I imagine we'll have one app that runs all tests.
And the individual apps to be build and run.


AJ: I updated the documentation: focus on KraftKit, updated it to current state of Unikraft / apps, images.

SK: It should be possible to export the API comments.
We shouldn't wait for the documentation in `README.md` and code comments to be complete, before we provide an API.

AJ: This is new code.

AJ: We got to a good point to a set libraries.
It's important to update libraries.

AJ: Do we want to have to access the prebuild dynamic libraries?
Would it be useful to have these shared libraries stored somewhere for easy use?

SK: We should wait for this binary compatibility mode is to be adopted my the community.
If we get to as-fast as native run.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Approve them for the 0.14 release.

RD: Schedule a CI/CD meeting (next maintainers meeting).

