---
title: "Maintainers Meeting, August 21, 2023"
tags: unikraft, maintainers
datetime: 2023-08-21T11:00:00+02:00
location: Online, Discord (https://bit.ly/UnikraftDiscord), the `#maintainers-voice` voice channel
teams:
- maintainers
participants:
- Simon
- Sergiu
- Michalis
- Maria
- ȘtefanJ
- RăzvanD
- RaduNichita
- Jakob
- Cezar
- Marco
---

## :dart: Agenda

* CI, branches used in repositories (`stable`, `staging`), release process (30 minutes)
* Plat re-arch (30 minutes)

## :closed_book: Discussions

### CI, Branches, Release Process

RD: We are moving towards GitHub Actions.
There is a workflow in the Unikraft core repository: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/blob/staging/.github/workflows/integration.yaml

The `catalog` repository (currently private) would consists of all the applications.

MP / RD: A lot of different combinations, relying on Make, should happen as nightly builds, they take a lot of time.
They can be based on the `maintainer-tools` repository: https://github.com/unikraft-upb/maintainer-tools/tree/staging

MP: We have to think about running baremetal and different combinations: PIE, UEFI, ukvmem.

CC: The `catalog` repository would contain the workflows to be called from all repositories: core and 

MP: The new GitHub CI is a large progress.
It made the release possible.

MP: What we could do for the ARM and non-native runs.

SM: For UEFI, we can use QEMU.

### Branches

SK: We have now the `staging` branch, where we add the bleeding edge things.
We have a certain amount of tests that the `staging` PRs in.

`staging` is easy to merge.

For `stable`, we do more extensive testing.

`stable` points to a stable combination across all repositories.

SK: Stable is updated more frequent.

We only use stable and staging.

Stable would be most of the time only a bit behind staging.

We can have also an ACK from users / companies that it works for them.

### PR Merging

SK: My important item is traceability.

MS/RD: I think the GitHub CLI tool can do that.

MP: Another approach is to add this manually by the author.

### Plat Re-Arch

MP: Now the drivers can be integrated as a library.

MP: Drivers are low-hanging fruits and can be moved quickly.
These should be done by people who are in charge of drivers.
This allows distribution of work.

MP: The next item is `ukboot`.
Remove `setup.c` from all platforms, split `ukboot` into `ukboot` and `ukinit`.

MP: On the platforms we need to do iteractions on the design phase.
There are some items on my side, we can discuss it later.

MP: There are some other (minor) items on peripherals.

SK / MP: Probably no blocking on the drivers work.

## :wrench: TODOs and Decisions

RD: Create PR to add `app-redis` to `integration.yml` workflow in the core repository: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/blob/staging/.github/workflows/integration.yaml

RD: Create draft PRs for `catalog` repository with `app-redis`.

SK: Review + integrate by tomorrow, Tuesday, August 22, 2023: https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/pull/1023

Item 0: MP / RD / RV: Focus on Rareș's PR.

MP / RD: Create a list of drivers.
Use HackMD: https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/36

RD: Open up a thread with options of merging PRs together with traceability info.
Ask for input.
Clarify (decision, vote) at the next maintainers meeting.

MP / SM / SK: Define goals of the `ukboot`-related tracks as part of plat re-arch.
Discuss on plat re-arch meeting on Wednesday, August 23, 2023.
